Ravi Spigner
11/17/2025
Workbook 7-Exercise-Northwind Traders


NOTE: These question should all be answered without the use of SQL Queries
1. What categories of products does Northwind Traders sell?
Beverages, Condiments, Confections, Dairy Products, Grains/Cereals, Meat/Poultry, Produce, Seafood
2. What is the name of a product that sounds interesting to you?
Scottish Longbreads
3. What are some of the countries in which we have customers?
Germany, Mexico, UK, Sweden, France, Spain, Canada, Argentina
4. What date was our first order placed? How did you determine that?
1996-07-04
I found the part in the northwind sql file where orders were inserted in to the order table
using the INSERT INTO Orders statement.
I noticed that they were inserted in chronological order by the date of the order, which is
the first date parameter for each order item. So the first order placed was at the top of the list.
5. What date was our last order placed?
1998-05-06
6. How many customers do we currently have?
I found the part in the northwind sql file where customers were inserted in to the Customers table
using the INSERT INTO Customers statement.
For each Customer/data inserted, I know that each insertion has 2 lines (one of which specifies the table and its data values). Lines 252 to 437 insert customers. So 437-252 = 185 (+1 include first line). 186/2 = 93.
(Used: SELECT COUNT(*) AS total_customers FROM northwind.customers; which returns 93 rows, to check my work)
7. Do we have any suppliers in South America? Europe? Africa?
Yes, but (and I could have missed it) I didn't see any suppliers in Africa.
8. What is our most expensive product?
a bottle of wine called "Cte de Blaye" which is 263.5
9. What is our least expensive product?
a cheese called "Geitost" which is 2.5
(Used: select productname, unitprice from northwind.products where unitprice = (select min(unitprice) from northwind.products); to check my work)
10. We have a customer named "The Big Cheese" if I wanted to get details about their last
order from us how would you find that information?
I would look for the section where all orders are added, and then look for orders that match their customer ID (which is 5 characters, typically). Then, I can pick the one which has the most recent date for their order which is the orderdate field (or the first date field in the insert line statement) I can find their customer ID where they have been added as a customer.
a. What tables would you use?
Customers, Orders
b. How would you link the data in the tables you are using
CustomerID
c. What information might I want to know about their order?
OrderDate, OrderID
i. Order Date?
Yes, definitely.
ii. Sales Total?
Maybe, if we want to report that.
iii. Product Name?
Maybe that too if we want to report that.
iv. Is there other information that you might find interesting?
Maybe any fields of the order from Orders table that include "Ship" (ex. ShippedDate, ShipVia, ShipName, ShipAddress, ShipCity, ShipRegion, ShipPostalCode, ShipCountry).